>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, JULY 25:
TURKEY BEGINS AIRSTRIKES AGAINST
ISIS: WHAT THAT MEANS FOR THE
UNITED STATES.
IS THE SO-CALLED SHARING ECONOMY
REALLY WORKING FOR ITS WORKERS?
>> I'M TRYING TO BE FLEXIBLE
AROUND A PART-TIME JOB AND
ANOTHER GIG AND ANOTHER GIG,
BECAUSE THERE'S NOT ENOUGH FULL-
TIME JOBS OUT THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: AND, THE 50th
ANNIVERSARY OF DYLAN GOING
ELECTRIC.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
FOR THE FIRST TIME, TURKEY IS
JOINING U.S.-LED AIRSTRIKES IN
SYRIA, TARGETING ISLAMIC STATE
EXTREMISTS, OR ISIS.
THE TURKISH GOVERNMENT SAYS OVER
THE LAST TWO DAYS ITS F-16
AIRCRAFT HAVE ATTACKED MULTIPLE
ISIS LOCATIONS, LESS THAN EIGHT
MILES FROM TURKEY'S SOUTHERN
BORDER WITH SYRIA.
TURKEY'S STEPPED-UP ROLE FOLLOWS
THIS WEEK'S SUICIDE BOMBING BY
ISIS THAT KILLED 32 PEOPLE IN
THE TURKISH TOWN OF SURUC.
TURKISH FORCES HAVE ALSO
ATTACKED KURDISH MILITANTS
ACROSS THE BORDER WITH IRAQ.
AT THE SAME TIME, THEY HAVE
ARRESTED NEARLY 600 PEOPLE
SUSPECTED OF BEING ISIS OR
KURDISH MILITANTS.
TURKEY'S PRIME MINISTER SAYS
BOTH MILITARY OPERATIONS, IN
SYRIA AND IRAQ, WILL CONTINUE.
>> (translated): TURKEY'S
OPERATIONS WILL, IF NEEDED,
CONTINUE UNTIL THE TERROR
ORGANIZATION'S COMMAND CENTERS,
ALL LOCATIONS WHERE THEY PLAN
ATTACKS AGAINST TURKEY, AND ALL
DEPOTS USED TO STORE ARMS TO BE
USED AGAINST TURKEY ARE
DESTROYED.
>> Sreenivasan: THE U.S. AND
NATO HAVE PRESSURED TURKEY FOR
MONTHS TO JOIN THE MILITARY
COALITION AGAINST ISIS.
SO WHAT DOES TURKEY'S NEW
MILITARY ACTION MEAN?
REUTERS REPORTER AYLA JEAN
YACKLEY JOINS ME FROM ISTANBUL
TO DISCUSS THAT.
SO WHAT WAS IT THAT PUSHED
TURKEY INTO THIS FIGHT?
>> WELL, AS YOU MENTIONED,
EARLIER THIS WEEK, THERE WAS A
SUICIDE BOMB ATTACK IN A TOWN
CALLED SURUC ACROSS THE BORDER
FROM SYRIA, AND THAT SENT SHOCK
WAVES THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.
THAT WAS NOT THE FIRST ATTACK BY
ISLAMIC STATE ON TURKISH
TERRITORY BUT IT WAS BY FAR THE
MOST SIGNIFICANT AND DEADLIEST
AND IT HAD TO BE A FACTOR IN
TURKEY'S DECISION TO MOVE CLOSER
IN ALLIANCE WITH THE ALLY, THE
UNITED STATES.
>> Sreenivasan: WE TALKED
ABOUT TWO SET OF TARGETS HERE
THAT TURKEY IS FOCUSING ON --
ISIS AND KURDISH SEPARATISTS.
THEY CALL THEM A TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION.
ONE PERSON'S TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION IS ANOTHER PERSON'S
FREEDOM FIGHTER, RIGHT.
WHAT'S HAPPENING ACROSS THAT
FRONT?
THE P.K.K. IS ALSO DEEMED A
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION BY THE
UNITED STATES, AS WELL AS THE
EUROPEAN UNION.
BUT THE P.K.K., OR AT LEAST
FORCES ALLIED WITH THE P.K.K.,
IN NORTHERN SYRIA HAVE BEEN
COORDINATING WITH THE UNITED
STATES IN ITS CAMPAIGN AGAINST
ISLAMIC STATE, BUT TURKEY'S
NEVER CHANGED ITS STANCE TOWARDS
THE P.K.K.
IT HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN A PEACE
PROCESS WITH THE P.K.K., IN
WHICH THERE'S BEEN VERY
SLOW-MOVING TALKS BETWEEN THE
TWO SIDES SINCE LATE 2012.
HOWEVER, IT VERY MUCH CONSIDERS
THEM A THREAT TO NATIONAL
SECURITY.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT HAPPENS
ON THE GROUND IN TURKEY
ROUND-UP OF 600 DIFFERENT
ARRESTS?
WHAT DOES THAT DO TO THE KURDISH
POPULATION IN THERE IN ISTANBUL
OR OTHER PLACES?
>> IT VERY MUCH ESCALATES
TENSIONS AND CONCERNS?
THE P.K.K. SAID THE STRIKES
EFFECTIVELY END THE PEACE
PROCESS, SO THERE'S A REAL FEAR
THAT THINGS COULD TURN VIOLENT
AGAIN.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THIS IS
ALSO ON THE HEELS OF THE U.S.
KIND OF GETTING UPGRADED ACCESS
TO TURKISH AIR BASSES ALONG THE
BORDER WITH SYRIA.
THERE WERE DRONES FLYING OUT OF
IT BUT NOW U.S. FIGHTER JETS CAN
FLY.
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THAT?
>> AS PENTAGON OFFICIALS HAVE
DESCRIBED IT, IT'S A BIG DEAL.
IT REDUCES THE AMOUNT OF TIME TO
REACH ITS TARGETS IN SYRIA AND
IRAQ.
IT'S HUGE.
IT'S ALSO SYMBOLICALLY VERY
IMPORTANT, TOO, TO HAVE YOUR
STALWART NATO ALLY TURKEY
FINALLY FULLY ON BOARD IN THE
FIGHT AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE
WHICH THE U.S. HAS BEEN SEEKING
FOR WELL OVER A
YEAR NOW.
>> Sreenivasan: AYLA JEAN
YACKLEY FROM REUTERS JOINING US
BY SKYPE FROM ISTANBUL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: SYRIAN PRESIDENT
BASHAR AL-ASSAD IS TRYING TO ADD
REINFORCEMENTS TO HIS DEPLETED
GOVERNMENT FORCES BY OFFERING
AMNESTY TO MILITARY DESERTERS.
SYRIA REQUIRES ITS MALE CITIZENS
TO JOIN THE ARMY, BUT TENS OF
THOUSANDS HAVE DODGED THAT RULE
SINCE THE COUNTRY'S CIVIL WAR
BEGAN FOUR YEARS AGO.
MANY FLED THE COUNTRY OR JOINED
ANTI-GOVERNMENT REBELS.
ASSAD SAYS DESERTERS HAVE TWO
MONTHS TO TURN THEMSELVES IN AND
AVOID IMPRISONMENT.
GOVERNMENT TROOPS ARE FIGHTING
REBELS IN THE NORTHWEST PART OF
THE COUNTRY AND TRYING TO RETAKE
THE ANCIENT CITY OF PALMYRA IN
CENTRAL SYRIA FROM ISIS.
IN KENYA, PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA
IS VOWING TO WEAKEN ISLAMIC
MILITANTS BASED IN NEIGHBORING
SOMALIA.
ON HIS VISIT TODAY, THE
PRESIDENT ALSO VOICED SUPPORT
FOR GAY RIGHTS IN A NATION WHERE
GAY SEX IS OUTLAWED.
HIS FOCUS WAS MEETING KENYAN
PRESIDENT UHURU KENYATTA ABOUT
IMPROVING TRADE, AND ATTENDING A
GLOBAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP SUMMIT
IN NAIROBI WITH OFFICIALS AND
BUSINESS LEADERS FROM 120
COUNTRIES.
>> AND THAT CREATES INCREDIBLE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR AFRICANS AND
FOR THE WORLD.
IT MEANS MORE GROWTH AND TRADE
THAT CREATES JOBS IN ALL OUR
COUNTRIES.
IT'S GOOD FOR ALL OF US.
THIS CONTINENT NEEDS TO BE A
FUTURE HUB OF GLOBAL GROWTH NOT
JUST AFRICAN GROWTH.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRESIDENT
HAD A PRIVATE DINNER WITH HIS
EXTENDED FAMILY LAST NIGHT.
HIS FATHER WAS FROM KENYA.
THE NEXT STOP ON HIS FOURTH
AFRICAN TRIP AS PRESIDENT IS
ETHIOPIA.
HILLARY CLINTON SAYS SHE WILL
TESTIFY AGAIN BEFORE CONGRESS
ABOUT THE BENGHAZI, LIBYA
TERRORIST ATTACK THAT KILLED
FOUR AMERICANS IN 2012, WHEN SHE
WAS SECRETARY OF STATE.
MRS. CLINTON WILL BE QUESTIONED
AT A PUBLIC HEARING, IN OCTOBER,
BEFORE A SPECIAL HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES PANEL PROBING
THE ATTACK.
CLINTON PREVIOUSLY TESTIFIED
ABOUT BENGHAZI BEFORE A SENATE
COMMITTEE BACK IN 2013.
CLINTON SAYS SHE HAD NO ROLE IN
SECURITY DECISIONS SURROUNDING
THE U.S. CONSULATE IN LIBYA,
WHERE THE ATTACK OCCURRED.
THE HOUSE COMMITTEE IS ALSO
DEMANDING HILLARY CLINTON TURN
OVER THE PERSONAL EMAIL SERVER
SHE USED WHILE SHE RAN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT.
SHE HAS RELEASED 30,000 EMAILS,
BUT SHE EXCLUDED PRIVATE
MESSAGES.
TWO INSPECTORS GENERAL HAVE
STATED SOME OF THOSE EMAILS
CONTAINED CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.
>> Sreenivasan: IN TONIGHT'S
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, WE BEGIN A
SERIES OF REPORTS ON THE SO-
CALLED SHARING ECONOMY-- THE
WAYS IN WHICH TECHNOLOGY, AND
OUR INCREASINGLY MOBILE LIFE IS
CHANGING HOW WE DO BUSINESS.
ESTIMATES ARE THAT INDEPENDENT
CONTRACTORS, OR FREELANCERS,
RANGE FROM 13% TO 34% OF THE
AMERICAN WORKFORCE, OFTEN MAKING
THEIR OWN SCHEDULES AND WORKING
PROJECT BY PROJECT.
FROM THE TAP OF A SMARTPHONE
APP, A GROWING NUMBER OF
COMPANIES ARE USING INDEPENDENT
CONTRACTORS TO DO EVERYTHING
FROM CLEAN YOUR HOUSE TO GIVE
YOU A RIDE, LEADING TO A SIMPLE
QUESTION: ARE THOSE WORKERS
TRULY INDEPENDENT, OR ARE THEY
ESSENTIALLY EMPLOYEES?
AND DO OUR DEFINITIONS OF WHAT
CONSTITUTES A WORKER NEED TO
CHANGE WITH THE TIMES?
>> Reporter: KAITLIN HARRIS' JOB
IS TO SHOP.
>> USUALLY YOU START WITH
PRODUCE.
>> Reporter: SHE HAND-PICKS
ITEMS, OFTEN AT THIS WHOLE FOODS
OUTSIDE BOSTON.
FOOD THAT OTHER PEOPLE ORDER
ONLINE.
>> I COULDN'T FIND THE CHEESE
THAT THE CUSTOMER ASKED FOR, SO
I'M GOING TO GET A REPLACEMENT
FOR THEM.
>> Reporter: HARRIS WORKS FOR
INSTACART, WHICH GUARANTEES
GROCERY DELIVERIES TO YOUR HOME
IN AS LITTLE AS AN HOUR.
THE THREE-YEAR-OLD COMPANY
OFFERS ITS SERVICE IN 16 CITIES
AND PARTNERS WITH LOCAL STORES,
INCLUDING BIG CHAIN RETAILERS
LIKE COSTCO AND WHOLE FOODS.
INSTACART USED TO CONSIDER ITS
SHOPPERS, LIKE HARRIS,
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS, NOT
EMPLOYEES.
WORKERS DIDN'T EARN ANY
BENEFITS, BUT THE JOB WAS
FLEXIBLE.
THEY COULD CHOOSE TO WORK AS
MUCH OR AS LITTLE AS THEY WANTED
AND GOT PAID BY THE TASK.
BUT LAST MONTH INSTACART
ANNOUNCED A BIG CHANGE: SHOPPERS
IN SOME MARKETS, INCLUDING
BOSTON, WOULD HAVE THE OPTION TO
BECOME EMPLOYEES.
>> I WAS HAPPY TO HEAR THAT I
WAS BROUGHT ON AS AN EMPLOYEE.
>> Reporter: FOR HARRIS, A
COLLEGE STUDENT WHO WORKS 20
HOURS A WEEK, BEING AN EMPLOYEE
MEANS A GUARANTEED PAYCHECK, NOT
HAVING TO WORRY ABOUT SETTING
ASIDE MONEY TO PAY HER OWN
TAXES, AND A STABLE SCHEDULE.
>> I LIKE TO HAVE A SET SHIFT
FOR THE WEEK AND BE ABLE TO GO
OFF OF THAT FOR HOW MY WEEK IS
GONNA GO.
I LIKE THAT TYPE OF THING, AS
OPPOSED TO PICKING UP A SHIFT
HERE AND THERE.
>> Reporter: I SPOKE TO ANDREA
SAUL, INSTACART'S HEAD OF
COMMUNICATIONS, VIA GOOGLE
HANGOUT AT THE COMPANY'S SAN
FRANCISCO HEADQUARTERS AND ASKED
WHY INSTACART DECIDED TO ALLOW
THEIR SHOPPERS BE EMPLOYEES.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT SHOPPING,
AND GROCERY SHOPPING IN
PARTICULAR, IT CAN BE REALLY
DIFFICULT.
FOR INSTANCE, PICKING FRESH
PRODUCE, OR ITEMS THAT ARE PRONE
TO BREAKING, LIKE EGGS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF DIFFERENT
DECISIONS THAT THAT GO INTO
THAT, MINUTE-BY-MINUTE WHEN
YOU'RE FULFILLING AN ORDER AS A
SHOPPER.
WITH THE SHOPPERS, WE REALLY SAW
THAT THE SUPERVISION, OVERSIGHT
AND TRAINING COULD REALLY
IMPROVE THEIR JOBS.
>> Reporter: THE COMPANY SAYS IT
COULD ONLY PROVIDE THIS LAYER OF
MANAGEMENT ONLY WITH EMPLOYEES.
SO THIS HAS TO BE MORE
EXPENSIVE.
YOU HAVE TO PAY SOCIAL SECURITY
TAX, MEDICARE WORKER'S
COMPENSATION, RIGHT?
I MEAN, DOES IT MAKE ECONOMIC
SENSE FOR THE COMPANY?
>> WE ARE INCURRING ADDITIONAL
COSTS.
BUT WE DECIDED WAS THAT THE
ADDITIONAL COSTS THAT WE WERE
INCURRING ON THE FRONT END TO
EMPLOY THESE ADDITIONAL PEOPLE
IS WORTH IT FOR THE CUSTOMER
SERVICE IN THE LONG END, IN THE
LONG RUN.
>> Reporter: INSTACART SAYS
SHOPPERS WHO BECOME EMPLOYEES
WILL BE PART-TIMERS, WORKING
ABOUT 20 TO 30 HOURS A WEEK FOR
UP TO $15 AN HOUR.
BUT NOT ALL INSTACART WORKERS
WILL HAVE THE OPTION TO BECOME
EMPLOYEES.
DRIVERS WHO DELIVER THE
GROCERIES THAT HARRIS AND OTHER
SHOPPERS GATHER, WILL REMAIN
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS, SAUL
SAYS, BECAUSE DRIVING DOESN'T
REQUIRE THE SAME DECISION-MAKING
AS SHOPPING.
>> RIGHT NOW, THIS IS A MODEL
THAT WE'RE EXPERIMENTING WITH,
AND IT COULD CHANGE IN THE
FUTURE.
>> Reporter: HEATHER SQUIRE HAS
WORKED FOR INSTACART, SHOPPING
AND DELIVERING GROCERIES, IN
PHILADELPHIA.
BUT AFTER TAKING A CLOSE LOOK AT
HER EARNINGS AND HER EXPENSES,
INCLUDING GAS, WEAR AND TEAR ON
HER CAR, AND PARKING, THE JOB
DIDN'T MAKE SENSE.
>> I DISCOVERED THAT I WAS
GETTING SCREWED, IS WHAT I FELT.
I FELT ANGRY.
I DIDN'T THINK-- I DIDN'T THINK
IT WAS THAT BAD.
I DID NOT THINK IT WOULD, YOU
KNOW, BE, YOU KNOW, BELOW
MINIMUM WAGE.
>> Reporter: AFTER A FEW WEEKS
WITH INSTACART, SQUIRE
CALCULATED, SHE HAD EARNED ABOUT
SIX DOLLARS AN HOUR, AFTER
TAXES, AND DECIDED TO QUIT.
SQUIRE SAYS A SET HOURLY WAGE
WOULD OUTWEIGH THE FREEDOM OF
BEING A CONTRACTOR.
>> SO IT'S A LITTLE BIT
MISLEADING TO SAY THAT, "OH, THE
FLEXIBILITY."
IT'S LIKE, THAT'S GOOD, BUT WHY
DO WE HAVE TO BE FLEXIBLE?
I'M TRYING TO BE FLEXIBLE AROUND
A PART-TIME JOB AND ANOTHER GIG
AND ANOTHER GIG, BECAUSE THERE'S
NOT ENOUGH, YOU KNOW, GOOD
PAYING FULL-TIME JOBS OUT THERE.
>> Reporter: WHILE INSTACART IS
NOW CLASSIFYING SOME WORKERS AS
EMPLOYEES, NO COMPANY HAS BEEN
MORE AT THE CENTER OF THE DEBATE
THAN ON-DEMAND CAR SERVICE UBER.
AVAILABLE IN HUNDREDS OF CITIES
AROUND THE WORLD, UBER SAYS IT
IS SIMPLY A TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
THAT MATCHES RIDERS WITH
DRIVERS, AND ITS DRIVERS ARE
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS.
>> COMPANIES ENGAGE IN ALL KINDS
OF LINGUISTIC GYMNASTICS TO TRY
TO DENY THE OBVIOUS AND TRY TO
CLAIM THAT THEY'RE NOT IN THE
BUSINESS THAT THEY'RE OBVIOUSLY
IN.
>> Reporter: BOSTON ATTORNEY
SHANNON LISS-RIORDAN SAYS UBER,
THE COMPANY THAT CALLS ITSELF"
EVERYONE'S PRIVATE DRIVER," IS
CLEARLY A CAR-SERVICE.
>> I'VE SEEN IN A NUMBER OF
INDUSTRIES COMPANIES PASSING OFF
THEIR EXPENSES TO THEIR WORKERS,
SAVING ON LABOR COSTS.
DOING REALLY THE SAME THING THAT
THESE SO-CALLED NEW ECONOMY
COMPANIES ARE DOING IN THE
CLEANING INDUSTRY, IN THE
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY, THE
TRUCKING INDUSTRY, THE ADULT
ENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRY, THE CALL
CENTER INDUSTRY.
YOU KNOW, ONE COMPANY, ONE BIG
COMPANY WILL DO IT, AND ALL THE
OTHER COMPANIES THINK THAT IT'S
OKAY AND THEY'LL GO ALONG WITH
IT.
>> Reporter: LISS-RIORDAN HAS
FILED A CLASS-ACTION LAWSUIT
AGAINST UBER, IN CALIFORNIA,
ALLEGING ITS DRIVERS "HAVE BEEN
MISCLASSIFIED AS INDEPENDENT
CONTRACTORS," WHO SHOULD BE
REIMBURSED FOR ALL EXPENSES,
INCLUDING "GAS AND MAINTENANCE."
AS EMPLOYEES, DRIVERS WOULD ALSO
BE SUBJECTED TO MINIMUM WAGE AND
OVERTIME LAWS.
THE LEGAL STANDARD TO DETERMINE
WHETHER A WORKER IS A CONTRACTOR
OR AN EMPLOYEE IS NOT SIMPLE.
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE HAS
A 20-POINT TEST.
THE DEPARTMENT OF LABOR LISTS
SIX GENERAL FACTORS FOR
CONSIDERATION.
MANY STATES HAVE THEIR OWN
CRITERIA.
LISS-RIORDAN SAYS A KEY ISSUE IN
THE UBER CASE IS HOW MUCH
CONTROL THE COMPANY MAINTAINS
OVER ITS DRIVERS.
>> THE EVIDENCE THAT WE HAVE IS
THAT WHILE UBER DRIVERS ARE
DRIVING FOR UBER, THEY ARE
SUBJECT TO UBER'S RULES.
THEY CAN BE DE-ACTIVATED IF THEY
DON'T FOLLOW THEM.
THEY CAN BE DE-ACTIVATED IF UBER
MANAGEMENT IS UNHAPPY WITH THEM.
IF THEIR CUSTOMER RATINGS DIP A
LITTLE BIT.
THEY'RE SUBJECT TO, THEY'RE
SUBJECT TO TERMINATION.
>> Reporter: UBER DECLINED AN
INTERVIEW BUT TOLD US IN A
STATEMENT: "HOW DRIVERS CONTROL
THEIR TIME AND THEIR USE OF THE
APP, MAKE CLEAR THAT DRIVERS ARE
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS UNDER
TODAY'S STANDARDS."
>> SEE, I HAVE THE APP ON NOW,
SEE WHERE THE SURGE PRICING IS.
>> Reporter: RICHARD KRENTCIL
DROVE FOR UBER IN NEW JERSEY FOR
A YEAR AND A HALF-- A CAREER
CHANGE AFTER LOSING HIS JOB IN
THE FINANCIAL INDUSTRY.
KRENTCIL HAD ISSUES WITH UBER-
THE APP DOESN'T ALLOW CUSTOMERS
TO TIP DRIVERS-- BUT HE LIKED
BEING IN CHARGE.
>> THE FLEXIBILITY IS
TREMENDOUS.
YOU WANT TO GO ON A TRIP FOR A
DAY.
THERE'S NO ONE SAYING YOU CAN'T
DO IT.
YOU'RE YOUR OWN PERSON, AND YOU
COULD WORK WHEN YOU WANT.
>> Reporter: THAT'S A COMMON
SENTIMENT.
87% OF UBER DRIVERS SAY THEY
WORK FOR UBER "TO BE MY OWN BOSS
AND SET MY OWN SCHEDULE,"
ACCORDING TO A SURVEY THE
COMPANY COMMISSIONED THIS YEAR.
THE COMPANY ALSO POINTS OUT THAT
UBER DRIVERS ARE PERMITTED TO
ALSO WORK FOR RIVALS LIKE LYFT
AND SIDECAR.
STILL, ATTORNEY SHANNON LISS-
RIORDAN SAYS THAT FLEXIBILITY
PROVIDED BY SHARING ECONOMY
COMPANIES DOESN'T MEAN TRUE
INDEPENDENCE.
SHE'S ALSO SUED LYFT, THE
CLEANING COMPANY HOMEJOY, AND
COURIER SERVICES POSTMATES AND
CAVIAR.
>> HERE YOU HAVE ENTIRE
COMPANIES THAT ARE BUILDING
THEIR BUSINESS MODEL OFF HAVING
THE SERVICES THAT THEY PROVIDE
BE PROVIDED BY A MASS OF WORKERS
WHO THEY WANT TO LABEL AS
RUNNING THEIR OWN INDEPENDENT
BUSINESSES.
AND IT'S JUST NOT TRUE BECAUSE
THESE SO-CALLED INDEPENDENT
CONTRACTORS ARE COMPLETELY
DEPENDENT ON THE COMPANY FOR
THAT WORK.
>> Reporter: IN JUNE, A
CALIFORNIA LABOR COMMISSIONER
DECIDED ONE UBER DRIVER SHOULD
BE CLASSIFIED AS AN EMPLOYEE, A
RULING THE COMPANY IS APPEALING.
IN LISS-RIORDAN'S CLASS ACTION
LAWSUIT, THE JUDGE HAS ALLOWED
THE CASE TO PROCEED, WRITING,"
WHETHER UBER'S DRIVERS ARE
EMPLOYEES OR INDEPENDENT
CONTRACTORS IS AN ISSUE TO BE
DECIDED BY A JURY," SETTING THE
STAGE FOR A LENGTHY COURT
BATTLE.
THE FIGHT IS NOT JUST IN COURTS;
IT'S ALSO ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL.
DEMOCRAT HILLARY CLINTON HAS
SAID SHE WOULD CRACK DOWN ON
BOSSES THAT MISCLASSIFY
EMPLOYEES AS CONTRACTORS.
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE JEB BUSH HAS MADE A
POINT TO RIDE WITH UBER DRIVERS,
AND FELLOW REPUBLICAN RAND PAUL
TWEETED: "SERVICES LIKE UBER,
AIRBNB, AND LYFT STIMULATE OUR
ECONOMY AND WORK TOWARDS LOWER
PRICES.
HOW IS THIS BAD, HILLARY
CLINTON?"
HOW ITS DRIVERS ARE CLASSIFIED
IS NOT THE ONLY BATTLE UBER IS
FIGHTING.
THE RIDE-SHARING APP HAS BEEN IN
CONFLICT WITH EXISTING TAXI
FLEETS AND REGULATORS AROUND THE
WORLD.
JUST AS SHARING ECONOMY
COMPANIES UPEND ENTIRE
INDUSTRIES, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
BUSINESS SCHOOL PROFESSOR ARUN
SUNDARARAJAN ARGUES, WORKER
CLASSIFICATIONS NEED TO BE
RETHOUGHT ALTOGETHER.
>> WE'RE SORT OF IN A PHASE
WHERE THE MODEL OF PROVIDING A
FEW HOURS AT A TIME, OR
PROVIDING TO MULTIPLE PLATFORMS
MAY, IN FACT, BE THE MOST
ECONOMICALLY EFFICIENT ONE.
>> Reporter: SUNDARARAJAN
BELIEVES TRADITIONAL WORKPLACE
BENEFITS, LIKE INSURANCE AND
PAID VACATION, SHOULD BE
SEPARATED FROM ONE'S EMPLOYER.
>> TO ME, SORT OF THE HUMANE
THING ISN'T TO MAKE EVERYBODY A
FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE, BUT TO
EXTEND THE SAFETY NET TO COVER
PEOPLE WHO HAVE ALTERNATIVE
FORMS OF WORK.
>> Reporter: INSTACART'S ANDREA
SAUL AGREES THAT LAWS MAY NEED
TO BE UPDATED.
>> I DO THINK A LOT OF THE TIME
THAT PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO FIT A
ROUND PEG IN A SQUARE HOLE IN
REGARDS TO WHAT THE EMPLOYMENT
SITUATION LOOKS LIKE THESE DAYS.
>> Reporter: IN THE MEANTIME,
INSTACART HAS EXPANDED WHERE ITS
SHOPPERS WILL HAVE THE OPTION TO
BECOME EMPLOYEES TO SEVEN
CITIES- NEARLY HALF ITS
LOCATIONS.
FACT BE THE OUR LOOK AT THE
SHARING ECONOMY CONTINUES NEXT
WEEK ON SATURDAY WHEN WE FOCUS
ON WHO WINS AND WHO LOSES WHEN
YOU RENT OUT YOUR OWN HOME.
>> Sreenivasan: IT WAS 50 YEARS
AGO TODAY WHEN BOB DYLAN WENT
ELECTRIC AT THE ANNUAL FOLK
FESTIVAL, IN NEWPORT, RHODE
ISLAND.
IN THE EARLY 1960S, THE
INFLUENTIAL SINGER-SONGWRITER
MADE HIS MARK WITH TOPICAL SONGS
LIKE "THE TIMES, THEY ARE A
CHANGIN'" AND "BLOWIN' IN THE
WIND"-- SONGS HE SANG WITH AN
ACOUSTIC GUITAR AND HARMONICA.
BUT AT NEWPORT, IN 1965, DYLAN
PLUGGED IN AND STUNNED THE
CROWD.
HE WAS EVEN BOOED.
BUT IT WAS A BREAKTHROUGH FOR
ROCK '¡N ROLL.
EARLIER I SPOKE WITH BOB LOVE,
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF A.A.R.P. THE
MAGAZINE.
IN MARCH, LOVE CONDUCTED A RARE
AND LONG INTERVIEW WITH THE 74-
YEAR-OLD DYLAN ABOUT HIS
ILLUSTRIOUS CAREER.
SO WHAT'S THE BIG DEAL ABOUT
PLUGGING IN A GUITAR, HAVING AN
ELECTRIC GUITAR ON A STAGE AT A
FOLK FESTIVAL?
>> THE FOLK COMMUNITY, THE FOLK
ARTISTS, THE FOLK APPRECIATORS,
THOUGHT THAT ROCK 'N' ROLL MUSIC
WAS BENEATH THEM, THAT IT WAS
POP MUSIC FOR TEENAGED ANGST,
AND THEY THOUGHT THAT DYLAN WAS
TRYING TO SELL OUT.
THE FIRST SONG WAS "MAGGIE'S
FARM," I AIN'T GONNA WORK ON
MAGGIE'S FARM NO MORE.
MORE.
♪ A AIN'T GONNA WORK ON MAGGIE'S
FARM NO MORE ♪
>> IT WAS SHOCKING FROM TOP TO
BOTTOM.
HE'S DRESSED LIKE A RHYTHM AND
BLUES ARTIST, NOT LIKE THE
PROLETARIAT RAGAMUFFIN HE
PRESENTED HIMSELF TO THE WORLD
FOR, FOR YEARS.
THE MUSIC IS LOUD.
♪ I AIN'T GONNA WORK FOR
MAGGIE'S FARM NO MORE ♪
>> ME FOLLOW THAT WITH "LIKE A
ROLLING STONE" FULL ROCK BAND,
ORGAN PIANO.
>> Sreenivasan: WHICH MOST
PEOPLE HAD NEVER HEARD.
>> IT WAS RELEASED AS A SINGLE
AND I THINK WENT TO THE TOP 10
PRETTY QUICKLY BUT PEOPLE NOT
PAYING ATTENTION TO POPULAR
MUSIC MIGHT NOT HAVE HEARD IT.
♪ TAINT HEARD WHEN YOU DISCOVER
THAT
HE REALLY WASN'T WHERE IT'S AT.
♪ AFTER HE'S TAKEN FROM YOU
EVERYTHING HE COULD STEAL.
♪ HOW DOES IT FEEL ♪
>> NOW THESE FOLKS, THE ELDERS
OF THE FOLK COMMUNITY HAD
EMBRACED DYLAN AS THEIR OWN, BUT
SOMEBODY FORGOT TO ASK HIM AND
HE DID A DIFFERENT POINT OF VIEW
ABOUT THAT.
HE DIDN'T BELONG TO ANYBODY.
HE DIDN'T BELONG TO ANY
MOVEMENT.
HE DIDN'T WANT TO STAY THAT WAY
FOREVER.
>> Sreenivasan: AT THAT TIME
ROCK 'N' ROLL WAS IN ITS
INFANCY.
WE WERE STILL DEFINING WHAT ROCK
WAS.
>> SUDDENLY ROCK AND ROLE WAS
INDICATED AS A MEDIUM
LARGE ENOUGH IN CAPACITY,
FLEXIBLE IN ITS FRAMEWORK TO
HOLD SONGS OF THAT KIND OF
POWER.
ROCK 'N' ROLL KIND OF ARRIVED
THAT NIGHT BECAUSE DYLAN
AUTHENTICATED IT.
>> Sreenivasan: BOB DYLAN
RE-TOOLED HIMSELF.
GIVE OUR AUDIENCE AN IDEA HOW
MANY DIFFERENT FACES HE WENT
THROUGH.
>> THERE WAS THE INTERPRETER OF
THE AMERICAN FOLK TRADITION.
AND THEN THERE WAS THE ACOLYTE
OUR TORCH BEARER FOR WOODY
GUTHRIE, AND THEN THERE WAS
WRITING OF HIS OWN TOPICAL
SONGS.
HE RECREATED HIMSELF AS A
RELIGIOUS SINGER, COUNTRY AND
WESTERN SINGER AND MOST RECENTLY
WHEN WE SPOKE IT WAS ABOUT
HIS
IDOLIZING OF FRANK SINATRA AND
THE AMERICAN SONG BOOKS
STANDARDS WHICH WE JUST ARE
LEASED A RECORD THIS YEAR IN THE
SPRING.
>> Sreenivasan: IT SEEMS ON
THAT NIGHT IN NEWPORT DYLAN WAS
BEING DYLAN, AND NOT WHAT
EVERYBODY WAS EXPECTING HIM TO
BE.
>> HE WAS FOLLOWING HIS MUSE AND
INNER VOICE WHICH TOLD HIM MOVE
THIS DIRECTION.
HE WASN'T WAITING FOR THE
APPROVAL OF THE AUDIENCE.
AND HE WASN'T SEEKING THE
HE WAS BEHAVING THE WAY AN
ARTIST BEHAVES.
>> Sreenivasan: IT'S KIND OF
THE ESSENCE OF ROCK 'N' ROLL TO
CHALLENGE THE CONVENTION, TO DO
YOUR OWN THING.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
DYLAN IDOLIZED ELVIS AND MARLON
BRANDO AND ALL THE REBELLIOUS
FIGURES OF THE 1950s AND
SUDDENLY STEPPED INTO THEIR
BOOTS AND BECAME ONE HIMSELF.
♪ ALL RIGHT, MIS LONELY BUT YOU
KNOW YOU ONLY USED TO GET JUICED
IN IT ♪
>> NOW WE EXPECT OUR ARTISTS TO
CHANGE.
WE DON'T EXPECT HIM TO STAY
THE SAME.
>> Sreenivasan: DID HE SEEM
NOW WHEN YOU MET WITH HIM, IS HE
COMFORTABLE IN HIS OWN SKIN?
>> YES.
IT'S CALLED THE "NEVER-ENDING
TOUR."
HE NEVER STOPS TOURING.
HE PLAYS SEVERAL HUNDRED DAYS A
YEAR.
HE TOURS AS A REGULAR MEANS OF
EXPRESSION.
HE LOVES IT.
HE SAYS YOU HAVE TO GO TO WHERE
THE PEOPLE ARE.
YOU CAN'T EXPECT HEM TO COME TO
YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: A PRETTY
AMAZING MOMENT IN ROCK HISTORY.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FENDER
STRATOCASTER DYLAN PLAYED AT
NEWPORT, 1965 SOLD FOR $965,000,
IN 2013, A RECORD FOR A GUITAR
AT AUCTION.
IT'S ON DISPLAY THIS WEEKEND AT
THIS YEAR'S FOLK FESTIVAL.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: HUNDREDS OF
MOURNERS SAID GOODBYE TODAY TO
SANDRA BLAND, THE 28-YEAR-OLD
BLACK WOMAN WHO DIED IN A TEXAS
JAIL CELL.
THE FUNERAL WAS IN HER HOMETOWN
OF LYLE ILLINOIS, A CHICAGO
SUBURB.
BLAND'S FAMILY IS WAITING FOR
RESULTS OF A SECOND, INDEPENDENT
AUTOPSY.
THE HARRIS COUNTY, TEXAS,
MEDICAL EXAMINER HAS RULED BLAND
COMMITTED SUICIDE BY HANGING
HERSELF.
BLAND DIED IN HER JAIL CELL
THREE DAYS AFTER A WHITE
POLICEMAN PULLED HER OVER FOR
FAILING TO SIGNAL A LANE CHANGE
AND THEN ARRESTED HER FOR
ARGUING ABOUT THE TICKET.
THE PENTAGON IS ASKING HEAVILY-
ARMED CIVILIANS PATROLLING
OUTSIDE MILITARY RECRUITING
CENTERS TO LAY DOWN THEIR ARMS
AND GO HOME.
THE SELF-APPOINTED GUARDS HAVE
APPEARED IN AT LEAST FIVE STATES
SINCE LAST WEEK'S MASS SHOOTING
AT A RESERVE CENTER IN
CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE, KILLED
FIVE UNARMED SERVICEMEN.
ONE CIVILIAN GUARD IS FACING A
MISDEMEANOR CRIMINAL CHARGE FOR
ACCIDENTALLY DISCHARGING HIS
RIFLE THURSDAY IN LANCASTER,
OHIO.
THE ARMY IS ADVISING SERVICE
MEMBERS TO CALL LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES, IF THEY
FEEL THREATENED.
IN EUROPE, THE GOVERNMENT OF
MALTA ANNOUNCED IT HAS RESCUED
370 MIGRANTS AT SEA DURING THE
PAST FOUR DAYS.
THE MIGRANTS, FROM AFRICA AND
THE MIDDLE EAST, ARE TRYING TO
CROSS THE MEDITERRANEAN SEA IN
FLIMSY BOATS.
IN ITALY, ABOUT 800 MIGRANTS
STRANDED AT SEA ARRIVED AT
PALERMO'S SEA PORT TODAY AFTER
BEING RESCUED OFF THE LIBYAN
COAST.
AT LEAST 1,000 MIGRANTS WHO MADE
IT TO GREECE ARE CAMPING OUT IN
ATHENS WITH LIMITED ACCESS TO
FOOD, WATER, OR MEDICINE.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE CRISIS OF
MIGRANTS ON THE MEDITERRANEAN
TOMORROW ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND, WITH THE STORY OF A
GROUP OF TUNISIAN FISHERMAN
PRESSED INTO SERVICE TO RESCUE
REFUGEES AT SEA.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY
TONIGHT, POLICE IN LOUISIANA ARE
THANKING TIPSTERS FOR HELPING
THEM RECONSTRUCT GUNMAN JOHN
RUSSELL HOUSER'S WHEREABOUTS IN
THE HOURS BEFORE HE KILLED TWO
PEOPLE AND WOUNDED NINE OTHERS
INSIDE A LA FATE MOVIE THEATER
ON THURSDAY.
AND NASA IS RELEASING HIGH
RESOLUTION COLORFUL IMAGES OF
PLUTO.
SCIENTISTS ARE PARTICULARLY
EXCITED ABOUT FINDING FLOWING
SHEET OF ICE ON PLUTO'S SURFACE,
SIMILAR TO GLACIERS HERE IN
EARTH.
THE IMAGES SHOW PATTERNS
GOUGING GROOVES INTO THE
TERRAIN.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.